12/16/2013

added documentation files to Git repository
compiled tinyftp successfully
ran tinyftp with: tinyftp -s 127.0.0.1 -p 9909 -c .
this started a server on the localhost at port 9909

used PuTTY to get a new console, ran filezilla from: 
/compile/src/interface/filezilla
connected to 127.0.0.1 port 9909 from the quick connect bar
successfully connects to the server!
calls the "list" command to return the files in the current directory

noticed that the bottom of Filezilla has a tab for failed transfers with a
reason column - should add failed uploads/downloads from bad checksums to that

STARTING V1
based on work done in class, looked in tinyftp's connections.c for where the 
various FTP commands are implemented
found case statements around line 323 in interract function
noticed CMD_LIST and other constants defined
found enum for commands in cmdparser.h, added CMD_ZCHK

noticed that I need to return CMD_ZCHK from parse_input() located in cmdparser.h
added case statement based on pattern to return CMD_ZCHK when user input is ZCHK

went back to interract, added case for CMD_ZCHK based on pattern of others

looked at LIST command to see how it works - seems like you need to create client_fd
from make_client_connection(conn_fd, client_port, client_addr) to be able to write
responses to the client?
looked at the write_list function that it calls - it's defined in fileutils.c
has lots of checks to see if sock!=client_sock
conn_fd and client_port seem to be sockets

should probably create a function like write_checksum that takes in conn_fd, client_fd,
and then the file that it is trying to check
that function should handle the network stuff, and call another function which actually
returns the md5 checksum string of the inputted file - that can be a dummy for now
message that is sent to the client seems to usually be put in a char array

look at how delete_file is called in connections.c to see how you get a filename
filename just seems to be in the data_buff! - need to check that buffer for errors

added error checking of data_buff in interract's CMD_ZCHK case to make sure that it is not 
null, has a string of non-zero length, and does not start with a null character

note: when adding new functions, should add their prototypes to defines.h

use send_repl_client(client_sock, line) to send the message to the client

added retrieving the client socket and then calling the write_chksum function
to the CMD_ZCHK case in interract

added write_chksum function prototype to fileutils.h

created write_chksum function implementation in fileutils.c

used error checking on sockets from write_list

used connection closing from write_list

added print statement to write_chksum to test that everything up to this point has worked

command IS recognized, but throwing error 425
not printing the message that would indicate reaching write_chksum

things to check for tomorrow: where is error 425 sent?

12/18/2013

Can add debugging flag to CFLAG variable in tinyftp makefile to make it play
nice with gdb - running that is probably more informative than just putting
print statements everywhere! Could be interesting with a server though.

this didn't work too well, since halting a server does not lead to good things

searched code for instances of response 425, looked through my commits to see
where that is called in relation to my code

reply 425 - can't open data connection is sent whenever the client_sock parameter
does not match the sock parameter in the write_chksum function. I need to make
sure that this conditional statement is correct

on the plus side, the ZCHK command throws an error if no extra parameters (such as
a file name) are given to it, so that one check is working. Next up for that is
making sure that the file exists; however, that might be able to wait until the actual
checksum calculation is implemented

checking the conditional statement, it does appear to be fine - the write_chksum function
only reaches the line for sending the 425 response if the client socket is less than 0
(that is, not initialized properly) and the server socket does not equal the client socket.
So the issue lies with the function that is calling write_chksum (which is interract)

It seems to be following the same error checking pattern as commands like RETR or LIST,
but the input to the command might be wrong because of how I'm calling it (using the 
manual commands dialog box) - checking this with LIST (and a directory argument) yields
the same result, so I think we can call this revision completed, actually, and wait to
test it by calling it through the Filezilla GUI in the same way that LIST is called by
the program and not by using the "manual commands" box

Good place for the GUI toggle: under the "Force showing hidden files" toggle in the
Server menu?

12/19/2013

STARTING V2

Initial investigations led me to a dialog box that is launched at line 670 in:
/src/interface/Mainfrm.cpp

This is related to the "Force showing hidden files" toggle that I want to replicate

This snippet shows a few useful things: 
how to create and launch an alert dialog (which we might use for the "failed" 
downloads/uploads in place of integrating the bottom display at first)

how to get/set certain option values:
COptions::Get()->GetOptionVal(VALUE_NAME) (or SetOptionVal(VALUE_NAME, value))

the event id for clicking on that toggle is: "ID_MENU_SERVER_VIEWHIDDEN"

creating an event ID for the checksum toggle should probably follow a similar convention

searching on that event ID leads me to menu_bar.cpp line 77

That shows how to make a menubar option have a checkmark after it:
menubar->Check(XRCID("GUI_ELEMENT_NAME"), boolean)

They like using the ternary operator (condition?true:false) for the boolean value

still need to find where the thing is added to the menubar (and specifically the server
submenu)

found an xml(?) file: /src/interface/resources/menus.xrc
this has an entry for the View Hidden Files option, so I think that if I add my toggle
there in the same XML format, it should add it to the GUI - this meshes with what I know
about GUIs from Android application development

Doing a quick search yields this site: http://docs.wxwidgets.org/trunk/overview_xrcformat.html
Which does seem to confirm that you add elements there, and that this file is not automatically
generated (messing with something like that would not be super fun)

Adding an entry for my toggle with id: "ID_MENU_SERVER_CHECKSUM"

After recompiling, it seems that just adding the XML object is not quite enough, since it did
not appear. Hmm.

Seems like we need to add OPTION_USE_CHECKSUM in include/optionsbase.h (done)

grepping through the source code does not reveal too much about how the server menu and its
child menuitems are added to the GUI... trying a reconfigure/recompile first, and if that doesn't
work, I'll try digging deeper

Turns out adding to include/optionsbase.h created a few problems in src/interface/Options.cpp,
since it creates an array of tOptions based on the enums created in optionsbase.h and a few
other areas - since I hadn't defined an entry for the checksum option that I added, the count
was off, and was causing compilation problems. Adding an entry for the checksum option fixed that
problem.

Still no appearance of the new menu option. I tried changing the label on an existing menu option,
and it did not change in the GUI, even after doing a quick compile (not from scratch). So the
program must be getting its GUI information from SOMEWHERE else, and not that file dynamically,
as wxWidget's website claimed.

Grepping around lead me to look at the translation files, and the text for "Force showing hidden
files" is in resources.h - attempted to find that file, but it turns out that that file is created
during the compile process from the .xrc files so that the translation stuff can parse the text.
This doesn't quite solve the problem of the UI not updating.

The mystery is solved! I grepped around looking for where Filezilla loads in .xrc files, and
found the function LoadResourceFiles in interface/FileZilla.cpp. It uses a function to find
 the directory where the resources/menus.xrc file is located, and the path that the program
has been using is /usr/local/share/filezilla, NOT src/interface/resources (which is where
my changes have been made). I fixed this issue by running "make install", which copied
over the resource files from src/interface to the /usr/local... directory. Launching
the FileZilla executable (even from /compile/src/interface) then showed the new GUI
element! It is also checkable, although it currently does not do anything.

Note: running "make install" requires root

This issue was discovered by running FileZilla in gdb, setting a breakpoint just after
the LoadResourceFiles function grabbed the directory, and then printing the contents
of the variable that held the path

Added code to src/interface/Mainfrm.cpp to launch a dialog box warning that the feature only
works for custom servers (similar to the box for the "Force hidden files to show" option),
but it isn't quite working

Small error: I used GetOption instead of GetOptionVal. Easy fix, the popup now appears.

Added a small snippet of code to src/interface/menu_bar.cpp to make sure that the checksum
menu item starts checked if the default of the option was set to true, unchecked otherwise

That ends v2!

12/20/2013

Broke v3 down in another subtask: first, we need to get the checksum command "implemented"
on FileZilla (not the functionality of it, just being able to call it)

Commands are defined in /src/include/commands.h and implemented in src/engine/commands.cpp

Adding the appropriate interface and implementation code for this new command "object" was
straightforward enough

Grepping around looking how the CListCommand is called, found what appears to be the
"incantation" for calling a command in QueueView.cpp 2766 in function TryRefreshSettings:
//create an instance of this command with the appropriate variables as parameters
 CListCommand command(pListing->path, _T(""), LIST_FLAG_AVOID);
//use the engine's Command function to run the command, store result
int res = pEngineData->pEngine->Command(command);
//don't call the command if it would block the engine - this is multithreaded! yaaaaay
if(res != FZ_REPLY_WOULDBLOCK)
       continue;

//indicate that this "engine" is active doing a list command
pEngineData->active = true;
pEngineData->state = t_EngineData::list;

pEngineData comes from GetEngineData(reinterpret_cast<CFileZillaEngine*>(event.GetEventObject()));
might not need to do this EXACTLY, but it is a decent starting point for learning how the
system works.

looked into commandqueue.cpp to see how commands are processed - there is a Finish function
that handles special cases after the command has finished. If the ZCHK command has the server
determine if the checksums match, it should return a reply that indicates such and do something
in this function to prompt the user to retry the transfer. Depending on how the commands from the
server send data back, this might not be a bad idea; include the checksum computed locally as a
parameter to the command, and have the server compare it. Right now, though, I think that the
server should just send the computed checksum for the file it has, and then the client
should do the comparison. This design is, of course, subject to change.

looking at where the CFileTransferCommand is called, since we will want to call the checksum
after it (or as a part of it? that might be a valid route if this turns out to be difficult)

include/engineprivate.h has a bunch of command handlers inside it, so I defined one for the
checksum command - these are called by CFileZillaEngine::Command, so that might also be a
good thing to look at

implemented it in engine/engineprivate.cpp - return different error responses based on the
lack of connection, busy-ness, or not all data fields filled out

then, based on pattern of other commands, calls instance that is related to the ControlSocket

looks like there are virtual instances of these handlers in a bunch of places:
engine/ftpcontrolsocket.h
engine/ControlSocket.h
engine/sftpcontrolsocket.h

Also handlers for sending, parsing the response, and parsing the subcommand result.

So time to implement all of those!

Started with ControlSocket - this seems to be the base class for ftpcontrolsocket and
sftpcontrolsocket, so it is where the virtual function for the command is first defined,
and where the "fallback" is implemented that just basically says the command is not
supported because it is not implemented in the ftp or sftp specific control sockets

Stumbled upon a switch statement in ftpcontrolsocket's implementation that chooses
the response function to call based on the id of the command. Added an entry in
there for the checksum command!

Same with SendNextCommand

Looking at how each command is implemented, they all seem to need a special little
data class to hold their important pieces of information. The implementations are also
decently complex - although they mostly seem to be things that check the input to the
command for accuracy, so maybe I don't need to implement too much in there yet

Implemented the ChecksumSend, ChecksumParseResults, and Checksum functions for ftpcontrolsocket
(I am assuming that we do not need the ChecksumSubcommandResult function, since that seems
to be called whenever the function was called by another function - this might be a decent place
to put the function (ie at the end of the FileTransfer command, but I think there should be another
place available.

Performed a similar set of steps for sftpcontrolsocket

Then fixed a couple of small issues that were preventing a successful compilation

Should see how PWD displays the path in the command area - we can just display a dummy result
from the checksum command for now

sends it in a response 257?

Not having too much luck seeing how it prints the response... looking at what tinyftp sends
now

tinyftp uses sprintf to add current directory to a previously-defined string
len = sprintf(reply,REPL_257_PWD,current_dir);
then just sends the reply

So I defined a response string for the checksum (257_REPL_ZCHK), and I modified the
write_checksum function to create a string that uses the filename and a (fake) checksum
so that the server will send SOMETHING back

I believe that finishes v3a!

12/21/2013

STARTING v3b

Need to find where the file transfer command is issued, and then add code to issue the
checksum command right after it

Looking in the GUI code (src/interface)

No success with just grep, so ran filezilla in gdb, set breakpoint on the FileTransfer
function from ftpcontrolsocket, initiated a file transfer with drag and drop. that caused
the program to hit the breakpoint, so then I ran a backtrace to see what functions were called

Found a promising spot in QueueView.cpp (line 1495) where it goes if the transfer command is
successful, so I added an if statement in there to also send the checksum command if the checksum
option is enabled - this actually works for both uploads and downloads, so v3b and v3c can be
combined to one

Needed to add checksum as a possible state for the engine

After a little debugging, it seems like the reply to a file transfer is always that it will
block... I tried adding the state-changing-to-checksum when you get that response, too

Very good thing: the OPTION_USE_CHECKSUM toggles appropriately with the button, and we can
access that result anywhere in the code!

It gets to the point where it changes the state! Now to check if it actually calls the command

gdb confirms that it does call the command, but the result that is returned is 258, which
does not match a known FZ_CONSTANT.

Needed to add case for the checksum command in FileZillaEngine.cpp's Command function, at
least. But that wasn't all.

having trouble finding program location just with gdb, possibly because of the threading?
so I resorted to using print statements

After messing around with gdb some more, the program DOES go to FileZillaEngine.cpp's Command
function, and the command that it passes in SHOULD be correct, since I was able to use the
debugger to print the ID of the command and it matched cmd_checksum. However, something
weird is happening in line 32 of that function, and it somehow causing it to return the strange
value of 258. I have been unable to fix this problem.

Also, running into a few issues with the checkmark starting off in potentially wrong? The value
of the option remains constant between opening/closing it, but the checkmark is flipped if you
close it with the option checked. The issue was small and silly: I was using the value of
OPTION_SHOW_HIDDEN_FILES to determine the checkmark for the option, not OPTION_USE_CHECKSUM

I manually tested that a few times, and it is good to go now.
